	
No Offer
Positive Experience
Average Interview
Application
I applied through a recruiter. The process took 4 weeks. I interviewed at Susquehanna International Group (Philadelphia, PA) in February 2017.

Interview
There were 3 total interviews. A phone interview that was behavioral questions and light technical questions taken by (from what I gathered) a junior employee. A second phone interview that was similar but the technical questions were slightly more in depth (what is the search time complexity of a Hash table?: O(1)). The third was an onsite interview which they paid travel expenses for. This interview was broken up into… 
Show More

Interview Questions
From the onsite interview in the second session with the Leads: How would you handle processing multiple millions of trade requests if the number of servers wasn't a question? The one manager kept on following up my answers with, "Well what if that wasn't available?"  
1 Answer
Ultimately, I think they were looking for: "I would use a queue." Although I'm not really sure. I was trying to figure out what the one manager was getting at, but there was a question of clarity in the questions he was asking that was absent. By no means was this a perfect interview --on either side.


Coding Question A group of friends are tracking the miles per gallon for each of their cars. Each time one of them fills up their gas tank, they record the following in a file:
His or her name
The type of car they drove
How many miles driven since they last filled up
How many gallons purchased at this fill up
Date of the fill
Their data is formatted as a comma separate value (csv) file with the following format for each row:(#person,carName,milesDriven,gallonsFilled,fillupDate)

Miles are recorded as floating-point numbers and gallons as integers.

Please create a program that allows 
members of this group to determine the miles per gallon (MPG) 
of each of their cars during a specific time range. 

Note: person may have more than one so a time range query 
might need to output data for one or more cars. 
A skeleton class will be provided; 
your job will be to complete the program.
The principal function for querying MPG is of the form 
(the exact name, data types, etc., can be learned by inspecting the "solution" class in the skeleton code):

GetRangeMPG(PersonName, StartDate, EndDate)

Returns list of objects containing (CarName, MPG)

MPG is calculated as (total miles traveled during time period)/ (total gallons filled during time period.

The dates you receive in the query should be treated inclusively.  


create a 366 vector each item corresponds to the date.


Given as list of movies in a csv file, 
extract the movie name and genre 
and be able to return a query based on the years. 




以下是现在还记得的部分问题：
-google 1point3acres
* 从立方体的一个顶点走到远端对角顶点，每一步走一个边，走每一边的概率相等。求整个路程的期待值。. 鍥磋鎴戜滑@1point 3 acres
* 给两个uniformly distributed random variables，求其最大值和最小值的期待值。
* 给一个二维平面，问其在单位圆（含边界）范围内最大值是什么？
* 什么是option？有哪些不同的option？Call/put option的payoff曲线是什么？
* 如何hedge call option的risk？什么是short selling？有什么用？
* 最小的非阿贝尔群是什么？
* R - {0}（作为乘法群）的最小和第二小的子群是什么？
* Leetcode原题：计算一个数组的所有子集合的数目，并打印出来所有子集合。
* Leetcode原题：上台阶。

300层楼，3个一样的小球，设计一个策略，得到小球摔碎的临界层数，并且要求最坏情况下所试次数最少。
经典的扔鸡蛋问题，只不过现在有三个鸡蛋。解题思路一样的，都是动态规划。
记F(n, k)为n层楼，k个球时所需要的最少尝试次数，则
F(n, k) = min ( F(n-r, k) + 1, F(r-1, k-1) + 1), r = 1, 2, …, n;
F(n, 1) = n;
一百个眼镜，摆成一个圈，全部正面向上，第一个人将每个翻动一次，一共翻了100次；第二个人从no.2开始隔一个翻一次，也翻100次；第3个人从no.3开始隔两个翻一次，翻100次，问100个人之后，多少眼镜正面向上
以前有个类似的题目说的是眼镜在一个直线上，现在这个版本要难一些。
一个蛋糕，切成连续的n块，有m个豆，问如果每小块上放一种豆，并且要求相邻的2块上的豆不一样，有多少种方法。
一条东西向长街，你站在街中间，街北是一排门，你有一把钥匙，请写出一种策略，要求X/N在最坏情况下最少，X为你到达正确的门时所走的总路程，N为正确的门距原点的距离，可以假设门与门之间距离为1。